1. Box-Sizing :  there are two properties in this : 

 a. content-box : it will calulate the net width with width + padding +border (default - not recommended - ui layout breaks)
 b. border-box : it gives the actual width i.e the width includes padding , border etc in it (good practice)


2. CSS Positioning :  

 a. Relative : 
    1. the element is positioned relative to its previous position 
    2. Gap is maintained when it is positioned 

 b. Absolute : 
    1. the element is positioned absolute to the closest positioned parent 
    2. Gap is filled 

 c. Static : (dafault)

 d. Fixed : 
   1. the element is positioned according to browser window 
   2. it is fixed at the position throughout the web page 

 e. Sticky : 
   1. the element is positioned but when the parent component is disappeared from the window (like in scroll) then is also gone with that 


3. CSS Size Unit : 
   
 a. px : it is 1/97th of the inch 

 b. em : 
    1. in this padding and margin remains unchanged 
    2. fontsize is calulated acc to parent i.e 1 em = fontsize of parent 
    3. width is calulated according to font size of it's own 

 c. rem : simply is nothing just according to root element font size i.e 1 rem = 16px

 d. vh : height equals to window height 

 e. vw : width equals to window width 


4. Float and clear : 

 a. float : it is the property used to float element like the other element is wrapped around it like in book page content is wrapped and image is in right or left 

 b. clear : if an element is is having an element in its right and left and both are float then we can decide which we want to clear like clear : left , right 


5. Flexbox :
 taking analogy that we have a big conatainer in that we have 4 boxes (divs)

  - now we have to make the container , display :flex , using this the container becomes a flexbox and the items in that are k/a flex items 
  
  - Flex-wrap : In this the items which are in the container are wrapped when we change the width of the container 

  - Flex-direction : 
    a. row : in this the items are aligned in the row wise fashion (in this we have hor. axis)
    b. column : in this the items are aligned in the column wise fashion (in this we have vertical axis)
    c. row-reverse
    d. column-reverse 

  - Justify-content : (according to the axis - depends on flex-direction)
    a. start : align items at the start of the axis 
    b. end : at end
    c. center : at center 
    d. space-between : 1st and last item we be placed at ends and other are filled evenly 
    e. space-around : as name suggests each item will be having space in right and left part and all will be having even space 
    f. space-evenly : every box will be at equal distant from each other and with axis end also 

  - Align-items : (items are aligned according to vertical axis always which is placed at exatcly middle of the screen) 
    a. flex-start 
    b. flex-end 
    c. center 
    d. stretch (default)

  - Now understanding properties of flex item : 
   
  - order : it is a number value lower to higher arranges the flex items in start to end position 

  - flex-shrink : if items are shrinking then it is like multiplier if it is 2 for an item then that means that the box will be shrinking at speed of  2 times according to others 

  - flex-grow : same but for expansion factor simple 

  - flex-basis : it is used to give dimension of the item i.e width 

  - align-self : (according to cross axis just like align items axis)
    a. stretch 
    b. center 
    c. end 
    d. start 


 6. Animations in CSS : 
  
   - when we change the syle of an element then this transition is k/a animation 
   - @keyframes : in this we have to objects from and to in that we define our initial state and final state respectively 
   - animation duration : it gives what will be time period (in sec) from initial to final state 
   - animation-delay : after how much seconds the animation will start 
   - animation-iteration-count : how many times animation will happen 
   - transition-timing-function : ease-in, ease-out, etc and bazier-curve also there 
     - cubic-bezier (_,_,_,_) : each parameter value will be less than equals to 1 always 
   - animation-direction : 'reverse', etc 

  Difference between transition and animation : transition is a single step movement but animation consists of multiple movements that is multiple transitions 
   
  7. Transition  : it applied to the property of an element and it is similar to animation properties name are also similar just replace animation with transition 

  8. Transform : rotation , scaling of size , etc of an element 
    - translate(x,y) : x, y are in px

  9. Grid :

  


