1. Explain the async behaviour and event loop in JS ? 

A . js is a single threaded language which means it has a call stack and one by one function execution takes place and js does not waits for anything which means it is synchronous . Now timers , fetch , event listeners these all are given by web browser not by js , and to support async tasks we have callback queue , so in this callback method is pushed (eg : in timer when time is completed then callback is pushed to callback queue) and there comes event loop which continuously monitors the call stack when it is empty and the function is ready to get executed it pushes the callback in the callstack . Now for those tasks in which promises comes i.e fetch , in that the function is pushed into microtask queue , also the priority of execution of microtask queue is higher than callback queue . So , promise callbacks are executed first and when there is no fetch method left in microtask queue then callback queue methods got pushed into callstack 

2. Explain about promise ?

A. Promise is an object represting eventual completinon or failure of an async task 
 Also very important point : 
    1. Synchronous code 
    2. Microtask queue 
    3. Macrotask queue 

so the js runs synchoronously and line by line , if promise comes it pushes that into the microtask queue and if it gets timeout then it is first stored in browser buffer and then pushd into the mcrotask queue (becuase in the queue the task after ready to execute)

you have mastered this concept as you solved toghest questions of these on gpt 

3. How can we achieve paralled execution in promises ?

a. Promise.all() 
   in this it waits for all promises to get resolved but if any of the promises is rejected then it gives the error as output which that rejected promises is giving , else it gives the array of resolved values 

   eg : promise.all([p1,p2,p3]).then ((res)=>{
    console.loop(res);
   }).catch ((e)=> console.log(e))

b. Promise.allSetteled() 
   in this it waits for all promises to get settled whether resolved or rejected and gives the array of result as output 

c. Promise.race() 
   return a value bcz it waits for first one to get settled either resolved or rejected 

d. Promise.any() 
   it is success seeking , bcz it waits for first one promise which is get resolved and return the value of that but it no one got resolved then it gives an aggregate error in which array of all promises errors is there 


4. Explain about async and await ?

A. so async is a keyword and whenever we create a function async then it always returns a promise and the await keyword is used equivalent to then method of promise to handle resolve and it also stops the execution of next line but in promise this was not the case , sync tasks were executed first then microtask 

actually whenever an await is encountered then js engine removes the whole asycn function from call stack and now the timer goes on and when the promise is resolved then again function goes into call stack and then furthur execution is started and if now again await encounters then it again moves out method from callstack . whenever the problem is of asycn await then use function call stack method and js , do not think of microtask and macrotask queue 

5. which one is better async-await or promise . what's the difference ?

A. So, there is no difference between two it's just way of coding and async await in the backend uses promise then catch to do it's implementation . But it is more represting and easy for developers to understand

6. How to handle error in asycn await ?

A. we use try catch block in this 

6. Difference between a fucntion and a method ?

A. A function inside an object is k/a method 

7. Explain all about this keyword . 

A. this is used to refernce an object but which object it refrences to depends to how the fucntion is called . 
 
  a. in strict mode , it is undefined but in non strict mode it refers to window object (in case of browser). 
  
  b. this in object : 

   const obj = {
      name : "sagar" , 
      display : function (){
         console.log(this.name);
      }
   }

   console.log(obj.display()). // sagar
   const greetFunc =obj.display
   console.log(greetFunc()) // undefined - window.name = undefined

   c. this in arrow fucntion : arrow function don't have their own this binding, they carrry it from thier enclosed (parent) lexical scope. so just replace the whole arrow fucntion with console.log(this) and now get the parent object reference (simple) use execution context process 

    const obj = {
      name : "sagar" , 
      display :  () => {
         console.log(this.name);
      }
   }
    
    // undefined 

    d. in setTimeout function value is this is also window object it does not refer to any object if you give it 


8. Explain about call , apply, bind method ?

A . call() : using this we can use method of any other object just by passing the reference of out object .
  
  eg: const obj = {
   name : "sagar" ,
   display: function (){
      console.log(this.name)
   }
  }

  const obj1 = {
   name : "rashi"
  }

  console.log(obj.display.call(obj1)) // rashi 

  let display = function(hometown, country){
    console.log(this.name + " " + hometowm+ country)
  }

  console.log(display.call(obj1, "delhi", "india"))

B. apply() : it is exactly similar to call method just one thing that we pass array of argument instead of passing them in comma separate 

 eg : console.log(display.apply(obj1, ["delhi", "india"])) // same output as call wala 

C. bind() - it is also similar to call method just it does not call the fucntion immediately instead it return the fucntion ans we can call that function in future 


9. Which should we use async or defer for loading our scripts ?

A. async does not exceutes in the order are executed randomly so if we have multiple scripts in our file to be loaded and they are dependent somehow then it can break the code while defer executes in order .
 so if scripts are independent then use async loading else defer 


10. Explain about function currying ?

A. it is simply converting a function with multiple arguments into a chain of functions with each taking one argument 

we can achieve it using 2 ways : 
 
 a. using closure  method : 

  const multiply = function (a,b){
   console.log(a*b);
  }

  const modifiedMultiply = function(a){
   return function(b){
      return a*b;
    }
  }

  console.log(modifiedMultiply(2)(3));

  b. using bind method : (partial currying)

   const multiplyBy2 = multiple.bind(null, 2);
   console.log(multiplyBy2(3));  // 6



11. Explain me about CORS ?

A. So CORS- Cross Origin Resource Sharing 

 this is security mechanism of browser which enforces and manages how the resources will be shared among oriigns ( it is not enforced by server or frontend , it is brower security mechanism)

  Origin : domain + protocol + port 

 if the calls are between same origin same browser does not rescrict that it allows resource sharing but not in cross origin 

 there are 2 types of calls - simple and non-simple , 
  
  a. Simple Call : it is recognised as simple and safe by browser so the call can be directly made to server 

  b. Non-Simple call : these are recorgnised as risky by browser so first a pre-flight call is made to server and if server allows it and acknowledge it then real call is made to server 

  Note : Get, post (without json) , head - simple calls , others non-simple (post (json), put , patch , delete)
     
   why json is not recorgnised in simple it is widely used ?
   bcz json was not there when web security rules were made and json is powerful enough to change the server configurations so thats why 


 12. Local Storage and Session Storage .

 A. Session Storage : this is small as compare to local one but bigger than cookie, it is time bounded that is the data will be there in the memory till the session is active , if you close the tab or session of the browser then it is also gone . Unline cookies it is not shared to server 

 B. Local Storage : this is the biggest storage among 3 . It is not cleared unless user clears it explicitily . We can store data in this. 
